--- 
status: publish
tags: 
- Mozilla Crosspost
- Project 365
published: true
title: My Project 365
type: post
meta: 
  aktt_tweeted: "1"
  _edit_last: "2"
  _wp_old_slug: ""
  aktt_notify_twitter: "yes"
layout: post
---
As some of you may know, lately, I've become more interested into photography again. I've been taking pictures on and off, especially when traveling, and of special events. But I haven't been actively working on improving my technique for a while.

Enter JP and morgamic, whose excellent pictures (and perhaps some lens envy)  kept inspiring me to get out my camera over and over again. Just recently, I also started filling the gaps in my lens collection: I now have the ability to take pictures anywhere between 14 and 200mm focal length (before the crop factor), dramatically widening the range of pictures I can take.

So what better than a little photo project to keep the ball going? I came across <a href="http://www.flickr.com/groups/project_365/">Project 365</a>, whose premise is simple: For a full year, take a <strong>picture every day</strong> and share it with your audience. All right, I'm in!

All other rules you get to pick yourself, with some people also suggesting to create some "anti-rules" as to be realistic and keep it a fun and achievable project, so here we go:
<ul>
	<li>I'm going to do my best to take a photo a day, and upload (and blog) it somewhat close to the time I am taking it.</li>
	<li>If I take a bad photo, I won't beat myself up about it.</li>
	<li>This includes cell phone pictures. In fact, limitations of the equipment are probably what makes this even more fun to do.</li>
	<li>If I really didn't take a picture one day, I'll fill in one from my archive. Or improvise. We'll see!</li>
</ul>

My personal goals are to increase my knowledge of photography and my ability to take good pictures -- not only with expensive equipment. So I'll try to flip settings on and off, apply filters, get closer, move further away, crop, or distort my pictures, hoping to find <a href="http://www.macworld.com/article/156640/2010/12/photoresolutions.html">new and exciting ways</a> to display reality.

Feel free to follow me on my journey, and don't be shy to comment, both positive and negative, on the photos I take.

Oh, and if you are a photographer yourself, feel free to join in on the fun! Any questions?
