---
layout: post
title: "Quick bugfix release: UpShot 0.9.1"
tags:
- tech
- mozilla
- osuosl
- upshot
---

Since I released my [first version of UpShot][upshot-post], the Python-based automatic screenshot uploader, last week, I have received plenty of good feedback (for example [on Hacker News][hn]), encouraging comments (like [here on my blog][upshot-post]), and even quite a few [Issues][gh-issues] were filed on Github.

One particularly annoying issue was [#28][issue-28]: screen clips (CMD+Shift+4, then selecting an area of the screen) were not handled automatically. Full-screen screenshots and window-only screenshots worked just fine.

I was going to roll more than one fix into the next release, but because this is an annoying little bug, I decided to roll a quick maintenance release to make sure no one is put off by this obvious little flaw.

[hn]: http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4841234
[upshot-post]: /2012/11/27/upshot-osx-screenshot-sharing-with-dropbox/
[gh-issues]: https://github.com/fwenzel/upshot/issues
[issue-28]: https://github.com/fwenzel/upshot/issues/28

How to update
-------------

Unfortunately, there's no auto-update function [yet][auto-update], but updating is still easy! You update UpShot exactly how you installed it. Head over to the UpShot website:

[auto-update]: https://github.com/fwenzel/upshot/issues/14

> **[Download the latest version of UpShot][download]**

* Download the DMG file, double click to open
* drag the UpShot app into your ``/Applications`` directory, overwriting the existing version when asked.
* go to the Applications directory and start UpShot from there. UpShot will show up in your status bar in the top right corner of the screen.

[download]: http://upshot.it

Make sure UpShot is closed before you upgrade, or OS X will tell you the file is in use and can't be replaced.

As usual, if you find anything that doesn't work as expected, leave a comment here or an [Issue on Github][gh-issues]!

> **Note:** If you want to stay up to date on UpShot, subscribe to the [UpShot][upshot-tag] RSS feed on this blog.

[upshot-tag]: /tag/upshot
